[WIP] Docs - Update Grafana integration doc (#3337)
m3db/m3: site/content/integrations/grafana.md

weight: 3
---

> ## Overview 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Don't really need it, but I am flexible ;)

> Grafana is an open-source visualization tool used to dashboarding, querying, and monitoring databases, especially used for time series databases. See more [here](https://grafana.com/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is an open-source visualization tool used for dashboarding, querying, and monitoring data sources, especially time series databases. 
```

I think Grafana can do more than monitor databases, so added a bit more, and also avoid "here" links as they tell people nothing about what they're clicking.

> M3 supports Grafana integrations for both Prometheus and Graphite/StatsD metrics. It is recommeneded to use Prometheus metrics when integrating with M3DB. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
M3 supports Grafana integrations for Prometheus and Graphite/StatsD metrics. It is recommeneded to use Prometheus metrics when integrating with M3. 
```

We're still clarifying the difference between M3/M3DB etc, but I think this is correct

## Getting started with Grafana 

> Refer to Grafana's [Getting Started documention](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/getting-started/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read Grafana's [getting started documention](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/getting-started/). 
```

Read it to do what? What do I get by reading it?

### Provisioning Grafana

> Learn how to provision your Grafana instances [here](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/provisioning/#datasources). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how to provision your Grafana instances [Read the Grafana documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/provisioning/#datasources) to learn how to provision your instances. 
```

### Datasources

> Grafana suports many different datasources. When using Grafana, you will be able to switch views across your datasources. Grafana includes built-in support for [Prometheus](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/prometheus/) and [Graphite](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/graphite/). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana supports different datasources and the ability to switch between them. Grafana includes built-in support for [Prometheus](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/prometheus/) and [Graphite](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/graphite/). 
```

This is slightly contradictory, the second line says it supports two sources, but the first line says it supports many. Should the first line say something like it supports many with plugins or something like that?

> See a list of all supported datasources [here](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/).

Reviewer: Ah yes, so maybe combine this line with the first line above, and…

```suggestion
[Read the documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/) for a list of all supported datasources.
```

> ### Dashboarding 

Reviewer: I feel like this whole section should be a bit more specific to M3, i.e., what are best practices for dashboards when using M3.

Best practices for [creating dashboards](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/best-practices/best-practices-for-creating-dashboards/). 

Best practices for [managing dashboards](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/best-practices/best-practices-for-managing-dashboards/). 

## Grafana with Prometheus Metrics

> See the [Prometheus integration](/docs/integrations/prometheus) for more information on querying for Prometheus metrics using Grafana. 

Reviewer: Again, probably reword to mention why this is important, i.e., M3 emits Prometheus metrics, so…

> ### Sending metrics to M3DB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Sending metrics to M3
```

> **Prometheus Remote Read and Write**: In order to send metrics to M3DB, you must enable Remote Storage by configureing your Prometheus datasources with [Remote Read](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#remote_read) and [Remote Write](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#remote_write) HTTP APIs. See more about remote endpoints and storage [here](https://prometheus.io/docs/operating/integrations/#remote-endpoints-and-storage). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Prometheus Remote Read and Write

In order to send metrics to M3DB, you must enable Remote Storage by configuring your Prometheus datasources with [Remote Read](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#remote_read) and [Remote Write](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/#remote_write) HTTP APIs. Read more about remote endpoints and storage [in the Prometheus documentation](https://prometheus.io/docs/operating/integrations/#remote-endpoints-and-storage). 
```

> See the [Prometheus integration](https://m3db.io/docs/integrations/prometheus/) documentation for more information and examples of the configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the [M3 Prometheus integration documentation](https://m3db.io/docs/integrations/prometheus/) for more information and examples of the configurations.
```

> ### Adding Prometheus as a datasource 

Reviewer: I think you already said this?

Grafana includes built-in support for [Prometheus](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/prometheus/).

### Pre-configured Prometheus Dashboards

> All M3 applications expose Prometheus metrics on port `7203` by default as described in the [Prometheus integration guide](/docs/integrations/prometheus), so if you're already monitoring your M3 stack with Prometheus and Grafana you can use our pre-configured dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All M3 applications expose Prometheus metrics on port `7203` by default as described in the [Prometheus integration guide](/docs/integrations/prometheus). If you're already monitoring your M3 stack with Prometheus and Grafana you can use our pre-configured dashboards.
```

[M3DB Prometheus / Grafana dashboard](https://grafana.com/dashboards/8126)

> Alternatively, you can obtain the JSON for our most up-to-date dashboards from our [git repo](https://github.com/m3db/m3/blob/master/integrations/grafana) directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can obtain the JSON for the most up-to-date dashboards from the [git repo](https://github.com/m3db/m3/blob/master/integrations/grafana) directly.
```

> ## Grafana with StatsD / Graphite Metrics 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Grafana with StatsD/Graphite Metrics 
```

> See [Graphite integration](/docs/integrations/graphite) documents for more information on querying for Graphite metrics using Grafana. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read the [Graphite integration documentation](/docs/integrations/graphite) for more information on querying for Graphite metrics using Grafana. 
```

### Adding Graphite as a datasource

Grafana includes built-in support for [Graphite](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/graphite/). 

> **Note**: You’ll need to set the URL to: http://<M3_COORDINATOR_HOST_NAME>:7201/api/v1/graphite. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% notice info %}}
You need to set the URL to: {{% apiendpoint %}}graphite. 
{{% /notice %}}
```
We have shortcodes for this… They are now in the contributor guide finally :)
